JS SDK Revamp (#725)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/data-storage-cookies.mdx

---
title: "Data Storage"
description: >-

>   Detailed technical documentation on persistent user data stored in cookies or local storage by the RudderStack's JavaScript SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Detailed technical documentation on the persistent user data stored in cookies or local storage by the RudderStack JavaScript SDK.
```

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aliases: ["javascript sdk data storage", "js sdk data storage", "JavaScript SDK user data"]
---
```

> The JavaScript SDK stores persistent user data in the cookies by default. If the cookies are not supported, local storage is used instead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript SDK stores persistent user data in the cookies by default. If the cookies are not supported, the SDK uses local storage instead. 
```

> All the cookies are stored in the top-level domain by default. It helps you to identify the users visiting from websites hosted under a particular sub-domain. For example, if you include the JavaScript SDK in both `admin.samplewebsite.com` and `app.samplewebsite.com`, the SDK will store the cookie in `samplewebsite.com`. However, you can specify the cookie storage location by using the `setCookieDomain` parameter in the `load` API options as shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the SDK stores all the cookies in the top-level domain. It helps you to identify the users visiting websites hosted under a particular sub-domain. For example, if you include the JavaScript SDK in both `admin.samplewebsite.com` and `app.samplewebsite.com`, the SDK will store the cookie in `samplewebsite.com`. However, you can specify the cookie storage location by using the `setCookieDomain` parameter in the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/load-js-sdk/">`load`</Link> API options as shown:
```

```javascript
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
    setCookieDomain: "samplewebsite.com",

> });

Reviewer: Code can be beautified:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
  setCookieDomain: "samplewebsite.com",
});
```

```

<div class="infoBlock">

> Replace the <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key">Write key</Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url">Data plane URL</Link> in the above snippet with actual values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key"><code class="inline-code">WRITE_KEY</code></Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url"><code class="inline-code">DATA_PLANE_URL</code></Link> in the above snippet with the actual values.
```

> | `test_rudder_cookie`      | Checks whether the cookie storage of a browser is accessible or not. Once checked, this cookie is removed immediately.  |  `test_rudder_cookie:true` | Cleared automatically. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `test_rudder_cookie`      | Checks whether the cookie storage of a browser is accessible or not. Once checked, the SDK removes the cookie immediately.  |  `test_rudder_cookie:true` | Cleared automatically. |
```

Reviewer: Added some clarity. Can be confirmed with engg. once.

Author: @MoumitaM @saikumarrs Can you please confirm?

Reviewer 2: That's accurate.

|  `queue`    | Keeps track of the events that are in queue to be processed.   | <pre>[<br />  {<br />   "item": {<br />    "url": "https://rudderstack-dataplane.rudderstack.com/v1/track",<br />    "headers": {<br />     "Content-Type": "application/json",<br />      ...<br />    },<br />    "message": { <br />     ...<br />    }<br />    "attemptNumber": 0,<br />    "time": 1639734792773,<br />    "id": "a4d89d7f-b594-4eb3-b8bd-a5492e4b596f"<br />   }<br />  }<br />]<br /></pre> |

<div class="infoBlock">

> All the local storage cookie names are prefixed with <code class="inline-code">rudder.&lt;uuid&gt;.</code> For example,

Reviewer: How does the SDK obtain the UUID here? I think it's worth highlighting/adding this info. cc @MoumitaM

Author: @MoumitaM @saikumarrs Can you please provide some info here

Reviewer 2: It's a standard UUID v4 format. There is no need to mention more details. You might want to add that the UUID is UUID v4 format.
